SECOND REGULAR SESSION
HOUSE BILL NO. 1564
102ND GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE KELLEY (127).
3506H.01I DANARADEMANMILLER,ChiefClerk
AN ACT
To repeal section 94.838, RSMo, and to enact in lieu thereof one new section relating to
taxation.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:
Section A. Section 94.838, RSMo, is repealed and one new section enacted in lieu
2 thereof, to be known as section 94.838, to read as follows:
94.838. 1. As used in this section, the following terms mean:
2 (1) "Food", all articles commonly used for food or drink, including alcoholic
3 beverages, the provisions of chapter 311 notwithstanding;
4 (2) "Food establishment", any cafe, cafeteria, lunchroom, or restaurant which sells
5 food at retail;
6 (3) "Municipality", any [village or fourth class city with more than two hundred but
7 less than three hundred inhabitants and located in any county of the third classification with a
8 township form of government and with more than twelve thousand five hundred but less than
9 twelve thousand six hundred inhabitants] city with more than one hundred sixty-five but
10 fewer than one hundred eighty-five inhabitants and located in a county with more than
11 eleven thousand but fewer than twelve thousand five hundred inhabitants and with a
12 county seat with more than four thousand but fewer than five thousand inhabitants;
13 (4) "Transient guest", a person or persons who occupy a room or rooms in a hotel or
14 motel for thirty-one days or less during any calendar quarter.
15 2. (1) The governing body of any municipality may impose, by order or ordinance:
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.
HB 1564 2
16 [(1)] (a) A tax, not to exceed six percent per room per night, on the charges for all
17 sleeping rooms paid by the transient guests of hotels or motels situated in the municipality or
18 a portion thereof; and
19 [(2)](b) Atax,nottoexceedtwopercent,onthegrossreceiptsderivedfromtheretail
20 sales of food by every person operating a food establishment in the municipality.
21 (2) The taxes shall be imposed [solely] for the [purpose] purposes of funding the
22 construction, maintenance, and operation of capital improvements, emergency services, and
23 public safety. The order or ordinance shall not become effective unless the governing body
24 of the municipality submits to the voters of the municipality at a state general or primary
25 electiona proposal to authorize the governing body of the municipalityto impose taxes under
26 this section. The taxes authorized in this section shall be in addition to the charge for the
27 sleeping room, the retail sales of food at a food establishment, and all other taxes imposed by
28 law, and shall be stated separately from all other charges and taxes.
29 3. The ballot of submission for the taxes authorized in this section shall be in
30 substantially the following form:
31 Shall ______ (insert the name of the municipality) impose a tax on the
32 charges for all retail sales offood at a food establishmentsituated in __
33 ____ (name of municipality) at a rate of ______ (insert rate of percent)
34 percent, and for all sleeping rooms paid by the transient guests of
35 hotelsandmotelssituatedin______(nameofmunicipality)atarateof
36 ______ (insert rate of percent) percent, [solely] for the [purpose]
37 purposes of funding the construction, maintenance, and operation of
38 capital improvements, emergency services, and public safety?
39 (cid:69) Yes (cid:69) No
40
41 If a majority of the votes cast on the question by the qualified voters voting thereon are in
42 favor of the question, then the taxes shall become effective on the first day of the second
43 calendar quarter after the director of revenue receives notice of the adoption of the taxes. If a
44 majority of the votes cast on the question by the qualified voters voting thereon are opposed
45 to the question, then the taxes shall not become effective unless and until the question is
46 resubmitted under this section to the qualified voters and such question is approved by a
47 majority of the qualified voters voting on the question.
48 4. Anytaxontheretailsalesoffoodimposedunderthissectionshallbeadministered,
49 collected, enforced, and operated as required in section 32.087, and any transient guest tax
50 imposed under this section shall be administered, collected, enforced, and operated by the
51 municipality imposing the tax. All revenue generated by the tax shall be deposited in a
52 special trust fund and shall be used solely for the designated purposes. If the tax is repealed,
HB 1564 3
53 allfundsremaininginthespecialtrustfundshallcontinuetobeusedsolelyforthedesignated
54 purposes. Any funds in the special trust fund which are not needed for current expenditures
55 may be invested in the same manner as other funds are invested. Any interest and moneys
56 earned on such investments shall be credited to the fund.
57 5. Once the initial bonds, if any, have been satisfied, then the governing body of any
58 municipality that has adopted the taxes authorized in this section may submit the question of
59 repeal of the taxes to the voters on any date available for elections for the municipality. The
60 ballot of submission shall be in substantially the following form:
61 Shall ______ (insert the name of the municipality) repeal the taxes
62 imposed at the rates of ______ (insert rate of percent) and ______
63 (insert rate of percent) percent for the [purpose] purposes of funding
64 the construction, maintenance, and operation of capital improvements,
65 emergency services, and public safety?
66 (cid:69) Yes (cid:69) No
67
68 If a majority of the votes cast on the proposal are in favor of repeal, that repeal shall become
69 effective on December thirty-first of the calendar year in which such repeal was approved. If
70 amajority ofthe votes castonthe questionby the qualifiedvotersvoting thereon are opposed
71 to the repeal, then the tax authorized in this section shall remain effective until the question is
72 resubmittedunderthissectiontothequalifiedvoters,andtherepealisapprovedbyamajority
73 of the qualified voters voting on the question.
74 6. Once the initial bonds, if any, have been satisfied, then, whenever the governing
75 body of any municipality that has adopted the taxes authorized in this section receives a
76 petition, signed by ten percent of the registered voters of the municipality voting in the last
77 gubernatorial election, calling for an election to repeal the taxes imposed under this section,
78 the governing body shall submit to the voters of the municipality a proposal to repeal the
79 taxes. Ifamajorityofthevotescastonthequestionbythequalifiedvotersvotingthereonare
80 in favor of the repeal, that repeal shall become effective on December thirty-first of the
81 calendar year in which such repeal was approved. If a majority of the votes cast on the
82 question by the qualified voters voting thereon are opposed to the repeal, then the tax shall
83 remaineffectiveuntilthequestionisresubmittedunderthissectiontothequalifiedvotersand
84 the repeal is approved by a majority of the qualified voters voting on the question.
✔