SECOND REGULAR SESSION
HOUSE BILL NO. 2439
102ND GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE BOSLEY.
2997H.01I DANARADEMANMILLER,ChiefClerk
AN ACT
To amend chapter 547, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to a conviction
review unit.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:
Section A. Chapter 547, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
2 known as section 547.500, to read as follows:
547.500. 1. The Missouri office of prosecution services may establish a
2 conviction review unit to investigate claims of actual innocence of any defendant,
3 including one who has pled guilty.
4 2. TheMissouriofficeofprosecutionservicesshallhavethepowertopromulgate
5 rules and regulations to receive and investigate claims of actual innocence.
6 3. The Missouri office of prosecution services shall create an application process
7 that at a minimum shall include that:
8 (1) Any application for review of a claim of actual innocence shall not have a fee
9 that exceeds the following:
10 (a) Ten dollars for review of a misdemeanor conviction;
11 (b) Twenty-five dollars for review of a felony conviction;
12 (c) Thirty-five dollars for review of a noncapital murder conviction;
13 (d) Thirty-five dollars for review of a civil commitment case; or
14 (e) Fifty dollars for review of a capital murder conviction;
15 (2) No application shall be accepted if there is any pending motion, writ, appeal,
16 or other matter pending regarding the defendant's conviction. Any application filed
17 shall be considered a pleading under the Missouri rules of civil procedure, and all
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.
HB 2439 2
18 attorneysshallcomplywithsupreme courtrule55.03whensigning theapplication. The
19 application shall be sworn and signed under penalty of perjury by the applicant. Any
20 witness statements attached shall be sworn and signed under penalty of perjury; and
21 (3) Any review and investigation shall be based on newly discovered and
22 verifiable evidence of actual innocence not presented at a trial. Such newly discovered
23 and verifiable evidence shall establish by clear and convincing evidence the actual
24 innocence of the defendant.
25 4. The conviction review unit shall consist of two attorneys, hired by the
26 executive director of the Missouri office of prosecution services, who have extensive
27 experienceprosecutinganddefendingcriminalmatters,aninvestigator,aparalegal,and
28 such administrative staff as is needed to efficiently and effectively process all
29 applications and claims. The executive director of the Missouri office of prosecution
30 services shall coordinate the activities and budget of the conviction review unit and act
31 as an ex officio member of the unit.
32 5. Once the review is complete, the conviction review unit shall present its
33 findings and recommendations to:
34 (1) The office of the prosecuting attorney or circuit attorney who prosecuted the
35 defendant's case, the attorney general's office if it prosecuted the case, or the special
36 prosecutor who prosecuted the case; or
37 (2) If the review was requested by a prosecuting attorney's office, the circuit
38 attorney's office, the attorney general, or a special prosecutor, the findings and
39 recommendations shall be presented to the office that requested the review.
40 6. The circuit attorney, prosecuting attorney, special prosecutor, attorney
41 general's office if it prosecuted the case, Missouri office of prosecution services, orother
42 prosecutor who prosecuted the case is not required to accept or follow the findings and
43 recommendations of the conviction review unit.
44 7. (1) The application, investigation, reports, interviews, findings, and
45 recommendations, and any documents, written, electronic, or otherwise, received or
46 generated by the conviction review unit are closed records.
47 (2) The conviction review unit's findings and recommendations submitted to the
48 prosecuting attorney, circuit attorney, the attorney general's office if it prosecuted the
49 case, or the special prosecutor who prosecuted the case shall become open records after
50 the receiving entity of the submission makes a decision not to pursue a motion under
51 section 547.031 or, if such a motion is filed, after the finality of all proceedings under
52 section 547.031, including appeals authorized therein.
✔