SECOND REGULAR SESSION
HOUSE BILL NO. 2729
102ND GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE BARINGER.
5296H.01I DANARADEMANMILLER,ChiefClerk
AN ACT
To amend chapter 139, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to local property
tax work-off programs.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:
Section A. Chapter 139, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
2 known as section 139.025, to read as follows:
139.025. 1. As used in this section, the following terms mean:
2 (1) "Homestead", the residential real property actuallyused andoccupied asthe
3 primary residence of a taxpayer, provided that such residential real property is not
4 income producing;
5 (2) "Property tax work-off program", any program established under the
6 provisions of this section;
7 (3) "Qualified taxpayer", an individual who:
8 (a) Has attained the age of sixty-five years of age or older on or before the last
9 day of the calendar year for which the real property taxes on the homestead are owed;
10 (b) Hasbeenaresidentofthetaxingentityforaperiodofatleastoneyearandis
11 still a current resident as of the date of application for the property tax work-off
12 program;
13 (c) Is living on a low, fixed income and mostly or entirely dependent on fixed
14 payments from sources including, but not limited to, Social Security disability or
15 retirement benefits, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), or state disability benefits,
16 pensions, or retirement savings;
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.
HB 2729 2
17 (d) Is the ownerof record of the homestead or has a legal orequitable interest in
18 the homestead as evidenced by a written instrument; and
19 (e) Is liable for the payment of real property taxes on the homestead;
20 (4) "Taxing entity", any county, city, town, municipality, school district, political
21 subdivision, or special district within the state that levies and collects real property
22 taxes.
23 2. Any taxing entity may establish a property tax work-off program in
24 accordance with this section that allows a qualified taxpayer to perform temporary
25 volunteer work for the taxing entity, or for any public entity receiving or using revenue
26 generated by the real property taxes levied and collected by such taxing entity, in lieu of
27 the payment of any real property taxes, or any portion thereof, due and owing on the
28 homestead of such qualified taxpayer for any given property tax year.
29 3. A qualified taxpayer participating in such program shall be compensated at
30 the hourly Missouri minimum wage rate in effect at the time of participation. The
31 amount of the property tax abatement that a qualified taxpayer may earn shall not
32 exceed one thousand dollars or the total amount of real property tax owed on the
33 qualified taxpayer's homestead for the tax year that the abatement is to be applied to,
34 whichever is less. The governing body of the taxing entity may increase the cap under
35 this section at its discretion, provided any increase is submitted to the voters.
36 4. The number of hours of work to be performed by a qualified taxpayer under
37 anypropertytaxwork-off programshallbebaseduponthecalculationoftheamount of
38 property taxes, or portion thereof, to be worked off divided by the state minimum wage,
39 and subject to the cap described under subsection 3 of this section.
40 5. A taxing entity may by ordinance establish procedures and additional
41 standards of eligibility for a program adopted under this section.
42 6. A property tax work-off program shall be created upon the adoption of an
43 ordinance by the governing body of such taxing entity. Such ordinance shall be in
44 accordancewiththeprovisionsofthissectionandshallinclude,butnotbelimitedto,the
45 following:
46 (1) Procedures and deadlines for application and participation in such property
47 tax work-off program and any required documentation to sufficiently prove eligibility
48 and skills necessary for such program;
49 (2) The maximum number of taxpayers allowed to participate in such property
50 tax work-off program, if applicable;
51 (3) Proceduresforverificationandrecordkeepingoftheworkperformed,hours
52 of service, and the total amount by which the real property tax owed has been reduced;
HB 2729 3
53 (4) Procedures for the crediting of the amount of a qualified taxpayer's property
54 tax abatement towards such taxpayer's real property taxes; and
55 (5) Any other provisions that such taxing entity deems reasonable and necessary
56 for the implementation and operation of such property tax work-off program.
57 7. Any taxing entity that establishes a property tax work-off program under the
58 provisions of this section shall make information regarding such program available to
59 the taxpayers of the taxing entity.
60 8. Participation in a property tax work-off program and earnings under such
61 program by any qualified taxpayer as a property tax abatement of any portion of such
62 taxpayer's property taxes shall not affect the taxpayer's right to protest the amount of
63 such tax payments under applicable provisions of law.
64 9. A qualified taxpayer who participates in a property tax work-off program
65 established under the provisions of this section shall be considered an employee for the
66 purposes of chapter 287.
67 10. Except as provided under subsection 9 of this section, the real property tax
68 abatement amount earned by a qualified taxpayer under a property tax work-off
69 programinexchangefortheprovisionofservicesshallnotbeconsideredincome,wages,
70 compensation,earnings,oremploymentforthepurposesofchapter143,chapter288,or
71 any other applicable provisions of law and shall not constitute Missouri taxable income
72 to the qualified taxpayer.
73 11. A taxing entity may by ordinance promulgate rules, establish procedures,
74 and additional standards of eligibility for a program adopted under this section.
✔