SECOND REGULAR SESSION
HOUSE BILL NO. 2748
102ND GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE HAUSMAN.
4209H.03I DANARADEMANMILLER,ChiefClerk
AN ACT
To amend chapter 305, RSMo, by adding thereto one new section relating to revenues of city
airports.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the state of Missouri, as follows:
Section A. Chapter 305, RSMo, is amended by adding thereto one new section, to be
2 known as section 305.280, to read as follows:
305.280. 1. An airport owned by a city not within a county and that receives
2 assistance from the federal government or the Missouri department of transportation,
3 or both, may use revenues generated by the airport and airport facilities.
4 2. Suchrevenuesshallinclude,butnotbelimitedto,anyallocationscreditableto
5 thegeneralrevenuefundofacitynot withinacountytobepaidoutofthegrossreceipts
6 derived from the operation of airports and airport facilities.
7 3. Such revenues shallnot be expended foranypurpose other than thecapitalor
8 operating costs of:
9 (1) The airport;
10 (2) The local airport system; or
11 (3) Any other local facility that is:
12 (a) Owned or operated by the individual or entity that owns or operates the
13 airport; and
14 (b) Directly and substantially related to the air transportation of passengers or
15 property.
✔
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.