SECOND REGULAR SESSION
HOUSE JOINT
RESOLUTION NO. 111
102ND GENERAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY REPRESENTATIVE BAKER.
5045H.01I DANARADEMANMILLER,ChiefClerk
JOINT RESOLUTION
Submitting to the qualified voters of Missouri an amendment repealing Sections 4(d) and 26
of Article X of the Constitution of Missouri, and adopting two new sections in lieu
thereof relating to taxation.
Be it resolved by the House of Representatives, the Senate concurring therein:
That at the next general election to be held in the state of Missouri, on Tuesday next
2 following the first Monday in November, 2024, or at a special election to be called by the
3 governor for that purpose, there is hereby submitted to the qualified voters of this state, for
4 adoptionorrejection,thefollowingamendmenttoArticleXoftheConstitutionofthestateof
5 Missouri:
SectionA. Sections4(d)and26,ArticleX,ConstitutionofMissouri,arerepealedand
2 two new sections adopted in lieu thereof, to be known as Sections 4(d) and 26, to read as
3 follows:
Section 4(d). In enacting any law imposing a tax on or measured by income, the
2 general assembly may define income by reference to provisions of the laws of the United
3 States as they may be or become effective at any time or from time to time, whether
4 retrospectiveorprospectiveintheiroperation. Thegeneralassemblyshallinanysuchlawset
5 the rate or rates of such tax, except that the state income tax rate shall not exceed five and
6 one-half percent. The general assembly may in so defining income make exceptions,
7 additions, or modifications to any provisions of the laws of the United States so referred to
8 and for retrospective exceptions or modifications to those provisions which are retrospective.
EXPLANATION — Matter enclosed in bold-faced brackets [thus] in the above bill is not enacted and is
intended to be omitted from the law. Matter in bold-face type in the above bill is proposed language.
HJR 111 2
Section 26. In order to prohibit an increase in the tax burden on the citizens of
2 Missouri,stateandlocalsalesandusetaxes(oranysimilartransaction-basedtax)shallnotbe
3 expanded to impose taxes on any service or transaction that was not subject to sales, use or
4 similar transaction-based tax on January 1, 2015, except for subscriptions, licenses for
5 digital products, and online purchases of tangible personal property. Any new sales tax
6 imposed by thestate on or after January 1, 2025,pursuant to the exceptions provided in
7 this section shall result in a reduction in the top rate of the state income tax rate that
8 results in a reduction in income tax revenue that is substantially equivalent to the
9 revenue generated by such new sales tax.
SectionB. Pursuant tochapter116,andother applicableconstitutionalprovisionsand
2 lawsofthisstateallowingthegeneralassemblytoadoptballotlanguageforthesubmissionof
3 this joint resolution to the voters of this state, the official summary statement of this
4 resolution shall be as follows:
5 "Shall the Missouri Constitution be amended to prohibit the General Assembly from
6 implementing a state income tax rate above five and one-half percent and to modify
7 the prohibition on certain new sales and use taxes?".
✔