SECOND REGULAR SESSION
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 50
102ND GENERA L ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCED BY SENATOR KOENIG.
4145S.01I KRISTINA MARTIN, Secretary
JOINT RESOLUTION
Submitting to the qualified voters of Missouri, an amendment repealing sections 4(d) and 26 of
article X of the Constitution of Missouri, and adopting two new sections in lieu thereof
relating to taxation.
Be it resolved by the Senate, the House of Representatives concurring therein:
1 That at the next general election to be held in the
2 state of Missouri, on Tuesday next following the first Monday
3 in November, 2024, or at a special election to be called by
4 the governor for that purpose, there is hereby submitted to
5 the qualified voters of this state, for adoption or
6 rejection, the following amendment to article X of the
7 Constitution of the state of Missouri:
1 Section A. Sections 4(d) and 26, article X, Constitution
2 of Missouri, are repealed and two new sections adopted in lieu
3 thereof, to be known as sections 4(d) and 26, to read as
4 follows:
1 Section 4(d). In enacting any law imposing a tax on or
2 measured by income, the general assembly may define income
3 by reference to provisions of the laws of the United States
4 as they may be or become effective at any time or from time
5 to time, whether retrospective or prospective in their
6 operation. The general assembly shall in any such law set
7 the rate or rates of such tax, except that the state income
8 tax rate shall not exceed five and one-half percent. The
9 general assembly may in so defining income make exceptions,
SJR 50 2
10 additions, or modifications to any provisions of the laws of
11 the United States so referred to and for retrospective
12 exceptions or modifications to those provisions which are
13 retrospective.
1 Section 26. In order to prohibit an increase in the
2 tax burden on the citizens of Missouri, state and local
3 sales and use taxes (or any similar transaction-based tax)
4 shall not be expanded to impose taxes on any service or
5 transaction that was not subject to sales, use or similar
6 transaction-based tax on January 1, 2015, except for
7 subscriptions, licenses for digital products, and online
8 purchases of tangible personal property. Any new sales tax
9 imposed by the state on or after January 1, 2025, pursuant
10 to the exceptions provided in this section shall result in a
11 reduction in the top rate of the state income tax rate that
12 results in a reduction in income tax revenue that is
13 substantially equivalent to the revenue generated by such
14 new sales tax.
1 Section B. Pursuant to chapter 116, and other
2 applicable constitutional provisions and laws of this state
3 allowing the general assembly to adopt ballot language for
4 the submission of this joint resolution to the voters of
5 this state, the official summary statement of this
6 resolution shall be as follows:
7 "Shall the Missouri Constitution be amended to
8 prohibit the General Assembly from implementing
9 a state income tax rate above five and one-half
10 percent and to modify the prohibition on certain
11 new sales and use taxes?".
